[Music]
when studying ancient scriptures we
discover a love-hate relationship
between the Stoics and travel so is
there a stoic way to travel and how can
stoicism benefit those who engage in
travelling in this video I want to
present you the beginner's guide to
stoic travel
[Music]
the travel bug is a common phenomenon
nowadays for some people travel has
become an addiction I think we shouldn't
forget that today's recreational
traveling is for the most part a luxury
people pay large sums of money to board
expensive and polluting flights going
from hotel to hotel
from mountains to beaches and jungles to
deserts just for the purpose of
experience others travel with a specific
goal like work or charity while enjoying
the change of scenery that comes with it
I would like to explore two questions
the first one is ethical exploring how
and for what reasons we ought to travel
according to stoic philosophy the second
one is practical exploring stoic wisdom
to make travel in general more enjoyable
now let's start with the first question
is there a stoic way to travel knowing
that the main focus of stoicism is
living a life of virtue and that
so-called preferred indifference are
secondary we can safely say that the
Stoics won't support the massive
decadence that goes hand in hand with
several forms of travel another common
occurrence is the usage of travel as a
means of escape or to find peace and
resolve emotional turmoil the Stoics
don't see travel as a valid method to
find tranquillity Seneca argues that
travel is no solution if we aim to
improve ourselves emotionally he states
that instead of leading our emotions we
are carrying them I quote what benefit
has travel of itself ever been able to
give anyone no restraint upon pleasure
no briteling of desire no checking of
bad temper no crushing of the wild
assault of passion no opportunity to rid
the soul of evil traveling cannot give
us judgment or shake off our errors it
merely holds our attention for a moment
by a certain novelty as children pause
to wonder at something unfamiliar and
quote Seneca ensures that no matter how
far we travel it will not resolve the
emotional state that we were in before
we departed the constant change of
scenery will not change anything within
us during the time I created
this video I was traveling myself
spending a while abroad and I noticed
exactly what Seneca said when the
novelty of being away from home or a new
location wears off we will be confronted
by ourselves again our anxieties
negative thinking personality traits not
much has changed just by the moving from
one place to another when traveling the
external circumstances may change but we
will carry ourselves everywhere we go
according to Seneca it is essential that
we fix ourselves to truly enjoy
travelling instead of expecting our
travelling to fix us I quote if you
would enjoy your travels make healthy
the companion of your travels as long as
this companion is a voracious and mean
greet will stick to you and while you
consort with an overbearing man your
puffed up ways will also stick close and
quote even though I agree with Seneca I
think it's also possible to travel and
fix ourselves along the way without
expecting that the change of scenery
will solve anything
it surely is possible to do some inner
work during our travels traveling can
give us unique opportunities to expose
ourselves to what we fear or to learn
new skills in some cases changing
location can benefit us in becoming
better people in the form of seclusion
for example in us letters to Lucilius
Seneca seems to value spending time in
solitude and tells us that we should
stay away from crowds to consort with
the crowd is harmful there's no person
who does not make some vice attractive
to us or stamp it upon us or taint us
unconsciously therewith certainly the
greater the mop with which we mingle the
greater the danger and quote so a valid
reason for travel could be the avoidance
of bad company something that Epictetus
also advises when we live in a toxic
environment at home travel gives us the
opportunity to escape that and find a
better company that is more aligned with
our values or to simply spend time in
solitude withdraw into yourself as far
as you can associate with those
who will make a better man of you
welcome those whom you yourself can
improve wrote Seneca simply put Stoics
can travel when it supports or
cultivates their ability to live
virtuously another example would be to
travel for a specific cause when duty
calls or we have another good
non-recreational reason to pack our bags
and change location our travelling
contributes to the common good so when
this is the main purpose of our travels
and we happen to encounter some
preferred indifference on the side so be
it some examples of travel with purpose
are traveling for work traveling to
teach traveling for environmental issues
traveling for charity the second
question how can stoicism benefit those
who engage in travelling
[Music]
okay let's forget the ethics for a few
minutes regardless of the reason of your
travel
what can stoicism teach us that can make
our travelling more enjoyable quite a
few things actually when we engage in
our journey will be more intensely
confronted with the fact that the world
is completely out of control we don't
control the weather the delays of air
traffic taxi drivers that try to scam us
or if our hotel room looks kind of
different from the picture in a travel
catalog in stoicism the dichotomy of
control tells us that it's better not to
care about the things beyond our control
this doesn't mean that it's wrong to
stand up for ourselves but a healthy
detachment towards preferred
indifference will make the journey more
enjoyable the key is to lower our
expectations if we care too much about
everything that could go wrong we let
the tranquility of our mind depend on
the unpredictable experience of travel
which isn't a very smart idea caring too
much about external things boils down to
desire and aversion we might have a
strong desire for beautiful white
beaches and light blue water and a
strong aversion towards rainy cold
weather and missing our flight we might
say that when we incur the former that
our journey or vacation if you will is a
success but when we incurred a letter
our journey is a failure
imagine tracking every taxi ride using
Google Maps because of the fear of being
scammed or being irritated when a train
arrives too late and angered when the
local people aren't as friendly as we
wish they should be how horrible with
such a journey be instead enjoyed the
good and make peace with the bad and
definitely don't let either of them
disturb your equanimity a way to lower
our expectations is doing the negative
visualization by Marcus Aurelius which I
have made a separate video about another
idea is to keep a journal or travel log
so you can write down the daily
experiences because travel can be a very
overwhelming and evoke anxiety aside
from the practical tips that stoicism
has to offer that may enhance your
journey I think it's
essential to mention that the stoic puts
virtue first in short this would mean
that while traveling we ought to
consider wisdom moderation courage and
justice I think that moderation is an
important one to prevent the decadence
and focus on fulfilling the passions
like lust and delight even though this
might be exactly the false concept of
happiness that travel agencies are
trying to sell you indulging the senses
like stuffing ourselves on
all-you-can-eat buffets in luxurious
resorts or the sight of palm trees and
tropical beaches may be fun for a while
but will never satisfy us in the long
run nor will it make us better people
there's nothing wrong with enjoying
these things however because finding
contentment inner peace and the
improvement of character is an integral
part of stoicism incorporating these
pursuits in our journey is the priority
thank you for watching
[Music]